So until it's working.
Good morning, church.
Oh, it's full on this morning.
And actually, for me, it's been full for the past two days-ish.
It's always a privilege to stand before God's people to share God's word.
And it's a privilege that I do not take for granted.
So I really want to appreciate
David and Nicola for this privilege just to bring God's word to us this morning again.
It's my prayer that God will speak to our hearts individually and collectively as a people this morning in Jesus' name.
So we've been looking at a series, a rooted series from the beginning of this year.
We started looking at it from
where our roots should be.
And that was tattooed.
It all starts with Jesus that David brilliantly took.
And then we'll look at God that being not neglects in the fellowship of one another, like we've come this morning just to fellowship with one another and to fellowship with the Lord.
And then I think the fantastic dual
did a brilliant job, find your people, basically just, I mean, it's amazing to gather together in this space, in this, I mean, relatively large space, but as a church family, we also have a smaller space is where you can belong, be known and know others and serve and just bring all that God has put in you into life.
And today, I have the privilege of taking the, I think, the last leg of the series, a life of generosity.
And the uncoast crypto for this series has been, I think of Mr. Wannout, have I?
Yes, serving, cool.
So the uncoast crypto has been Psalm one verse three.
He's like a tree planted by the streams of water which yield its fruits in season and whose leaf does not wither and whatever they do prospers.
And that's a picture of what God deserves for our life to look like, being rooted and planted in Him.
That would be like a tree that's planted by the rivers of water.
Our fruits will always
But there in its season and whatever we would do will prosper and that's the picture of the tree that David introduced at the beginning of the series and I think it's been recurring.
So I mean, I just thought I would bring it back.
So what's generosity?
What are we talking about?
Generosity is actually God's nature.
It's what God himself modelled for us in Jesus and God keeps extending his generosity to us even today.
And it's amazing that we have come to the lost able this morning.
We've shared the communion, which is a symbol of the sacrifice that Jesus fully paid for you and I.
It gave his
all.
The bread signified the body of Christ, which was broken for us on the cross.
The blood signified the life in his blood that is shed for you and I.
So God modeled generosity for us in Christ by giving us his very own, his all, his only and is still extending generosity to us today.
The scripture says it's of the Lord's mercy that we are not consumed for his compassion feels not, his law for us is new every morning and great is the faithfulness of the Lord towards us.
Lamentation three.
Okay, where do we go from here?
I need my GPS.
Yeah.
And Jesus himself in Matthew chapter 5 was 4 to 45.
But I say to you, love your enemies.
Bless those who curse you.
Do good to those who hate you and pray for those who spitefully use you.
persecute you, that you may be sons of your father in heaven, for he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good and sends rain on the just and on the unjust, meaning that God's generosity is shown to all.
God extends his generosity, not just those who deserve it, but to those
who don't.
And Jesus was inviting us to be like our Father in heaven to emulate God in His nature of generosity.
So, generosity is a deep-rooted response to God's goodness and benevolence.
It's an expression of our gratitude to God.
Amazing will sound that this morning again throughout my hands and gratitude.
But that's not the only way we show our gratitude to God.
We can show our gratitude to God by also loving our neighbors.
And generosity is a reflection of God's nature, of character.
It's a reflection of
Our father was begotten us.
And I just want to zero in on a few obstacles to the life of generosity.
So generosity is God's nature, is what we should do.
Is anyone here who, well, I won't put you on the spot, but yeah.
I want to believe that we all want to live a life of generosity.
We've seen that it's God's nature.
We've seen that it's a good thing to do.
But what are some of the obstacles that stands in our way from living a life of generosity?
I'll talk about the, you know, the myth of self-made, self-made.
And can we bring that picture back?
I think it's on the next slide.
Cool.
So if you look at this picture,
this tree is situated by this, I mean river that's flowing and the tree is all grain and I believe in its fruit in season if it's a fruit bearing tree you see the fruits come out you see the tree actually blows on and
Of course, the tree has a responsibility to do, I mean, the tree takes oxygen, I'm not a biologist, but David is here to put me on the streets and narrow.
The tree takes carbon dioxide from us, right?
And converts that to oxygen, right?
Take an advantage of the sunlight, right?
And the tree is also well positioned for nutrients for, you know, by the riverside.
This tree has a responsibility.
But this tree's fruitfulness is also dependent on a lot of factors that the tree has no power over it.
If, for whatever reason, there's a drought
The water dries off from that river.
If, for whatever reason, the sun doesn't come out.
That tree will struggle.
And I hope by now you know that I'm actually not referring to that tree, I'm referring to you and I.
We all, you've done well for yourself.
I'm doing my best as well to make the most of what's around me to live a comfortable life, to give my family all that I need to give.
But it's not down to me that a lot of factors that I cannot control, that if God does not bless my efforts and all that I'm putting into it, my greats.
It won really amounts to much.
So no flourishing tree exists by itself.
And if it doesn't exist by itself, it doesn't exist for itself.
It doesn't exist just for itself.
There's a parable that Jesus stood in Luke chapter 12, verse 16 to 21.
I'm gonna dash through it 16 to 21, and he told them this parable, the ground of a certain man yielded an abundant harvest.
It thought to himself, what shall I do?
I have no place to store my crops.
Then he said, this I will do.
I will tear down my barns and build bigger ones, and there I will store my surplus grain.
And I'll say to myself, you have plenty of grain laid up for many years.
Take it easy, eat, drink, and be merry.
In other words, he told himself, I'm going to retire early.
But God said to him, you fool, these very nights your life will be demanded from you.
Then who will get what you have prepared for yourself?
Jesus then said, this is how it will be with whoever starts up things for themselves, but it's not rich towards God.
There's no problem with
the efforts and the hard work that this rich man had put into going to the field, maybe employing liberals, making sure that it puts the seed in the ground at the right time, nourishes it, and all of that beat.
But who believes that if the Lord does not send the rain, if there's no sunshine, if there's no ground to put a seed into?
It doesn't amount to much.
Paul rightly put it, in 1 Corinthians chapter 3 verse 6, he said, I planted the seed, Apollo's water did, but God has been making its grow.
So, I mean, even in secular conversation, the myth of self-made doesn't exist.
We all have public infrastructures that we rely on.
We have, I mean,
culture and all of that that we have inherited that has given us the leverage from where we start.
So as much as you put in the effort and all of that beat, God still makes it grow.
And if the Lord does not put His blessing, the effort won't amount to much.
The second myth that I just want to bust is the fact that
It's all just walked out well this morning.
Sorry, Austin, I'm gonna make a bit of a mess.
I'll clean up after myself, don't worry.
So, how would you describe the contents in this glass?
How full?
Amazing.
You're an amazing people.
I love to be in a church like this.
All full, right?
Is it all empty?
Yes.
Also.
So the truth is whether you say this is all full, or whether you say it's all empty, you're correct.
You're right.
It's basically just a function of perspectives.
It's how you look at things.
And it's not about this drink.
This is me.
This is you.
It's about our lives.
Because many of us want to delay a life of generosity till we have enough.
Oh, I'll give when, I mean, I've looked at my budget and there's no way, no tithe, no, it can't really work.
My budgets can't accommodate it.
Well, if it's not enough, if you pay your tithe,
It still won't be enough, even if you don't pay your tithe.
Second Corinthians chapter 8 verse 12, Paul writing again said, for if the willingness is there, the gift is
acceptable according to what one has, not according to what one does not have.
So God's invitation to us for a life of generosity, God is not asking you to be generous now, living in the assumption of your dream life.
Am I confusing you or convincing you?
Which one am I doing?
I'll try again.
So God is not saying,
be generous now, the way you would be if all your dreams and financial freedom, imagination come to pass.
God is saying, leave a life of generosity with what you have now, with where you have now.
If you don't start doing it now, it's a culture, it's a habit.
If you don't like rain it in now, when you have
So plus, you still think?
I've just got this way to go.
You still think?
That's a good problem, amazing.
It's not that I like sugar, but I just need the color to be different from water.
So, wow.
And I mean, I want to be sensitive and understand that sincerely, you know, fingers are not equal, right?
And this might be where you are.
Or maybe this is where you are.
God is still saying,
You still have something.
David and Nicola did an amazing series, a five-part series, last year when we were doing the Foundations Giving, and it's on our website so you can watch it.
And one of the analogies that, or illustrations, English is my second language.
That David used is the fact that, he used this analogy of Jim membership.
David has made up his mind for about two years.
You've been saying that since last year.
It wants to look the part.
Don't worry, David, you are fearfully and wonderfully made.
Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes.
You have a gym membership that you subscribe to.
And regardless of who you are, if the gym membership is £20 a month, it's £20 a month.
God is not saying, for everyone of us, it's £20 a month, just an illustration.
God is saying, with what you have, there is something you can give there.
Does that make sense?
It's not like one-size-fits-all.
It's relative to each one of us.
No time, actually.
There we are.
Let's move, let's move, let's move.
Thought, myth, or thought obstacle to living a generous life, to living a life of generosity is living a segmented Christian life.
Living a segmented Christian life.
When Christ and when God gave
And God keeps giving.
Jesus, his body was bruised.
His life it gave.
Emotionally, it was invested.
Spiritual and body is sacrificed for us to have the salvation that we have.
And God still keeps giving even today.
But some of us, or a lot of us, when we come to
Christ, and we say, we'll give our lives to Christ.
We are saying, Lord, this far you can go, but not as areas of my life.
I can walk this out by myself.
So his lordship is over certain areas of our lives, maybe over our Sunday mornings.
But after that,
in our finances, in our all areas, Lord.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Just let's keep this relationship in this part of my life.
Paul, again, in 2 Corinthians chapter 8, verse 1 to 5, talking about the Macedonian church, a church that's not supposed to be a church that leaves
in life of generosity.
He was commending that church to the Church of Macedonia, and he was commending that church to the church at Corinth.
And this is where he wrote.
Verse 8, chapter 8, verse 1 to 5.
And now, brothers and sisters, we want you to know about the grace that was given to the Macedonian churches.
In the midst of a severe trial, they are overflowing joy, and they are extreme poverty.
world up in rich generosity.
I mean, such a very contrasting, so there is an existence of severe trial.
However, there was joy, there was extreme poverty, but these same people world up in rich generosity, not just in generality, but rich generosity.
For I testify that they gave as much as they were able, and even beyond their ability, entirely on their own, the wearing co-host,
Nobody twisted their arms.
They all gently pleaded with us for the privilege of sharing this service to the Lord's people.
They saw it as a privilege.
And they were the ones like, we want to be a part of this.
How can we get along with this?
We see what God is doing.
We see the amazing work you're doing.
How can we do?
How can we partner with what God is doing?
And instead of the last verse.
And they exceeded our expectations.
How amazing is that?
But this is why.
They gave themselves first of all to the Lord and then by the will of God also to us.
So the reason for their generosity, even at the midst of objects poverty and severe trial, is because these guys were not giving God a segmented authority over their lives.
They've given themselves totally fast.
to the Lord.
And out of that, if God has your heart, he won't struggle for your hands.
We'll move to the next one.
This is not an exhaustive list.
I have barely 20 minutes.
I believe the Holy Spirit will divide this into our hearts as it pertains to individuals.
What can we offer?
What can we offer to the Lord?
What do we have to practice generosity with?
In Luke chapter 10, verse 27, a man came to Jesus.
The scripture, I think, refers to him as a lawyer or a certain lawyer or rich man.
And this was, in Acts of Jesus, what should I do to inherit eternal life?
And this was Jesus' response.
He answered, love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind, and love your neighbor as yourself.
To make it very practical, you can be generous with your time.
You can be generous with your gifts and skills and the abilities that God has given you.
And we can be generous.
We can live a life of generosity with our resources.
And we should in all those three areas, we should be generous.
We should respond to God's generosity and grace and benevolence towards us by giving him back what he did not withhold from giving to us fully.
So, this is all I've been trying to say.
Generasties are deep-rooted response to God's goodness and benevolence.
It's an expression of our gratitude to God.
And it's our reflection of God's nature and character, our Father.
And some of the officers who obstacles with
trying to debunk is the self-made myth, delaying generosity to you, we have enough, and living a segmented life instead of letting him be Lord of all.
One of the early church fathers says, if he's not Lord over all, he's not Lord at all.
And I just want to give us, I'm aware time has gone,
How do we respond to this?
I mean, we've heard it when Lucy was talking about giving.
We are a church that stretches the hands and feet of Jesus to the community that he has placed us.
So as a church, there are amazing ways we are reaching the world with the love of God.
It takes time, it takes resources, it takes skills, it takes loads to make all this happen.
I don't think we avoid other news or channels of generosity.
So I'm just gonna invite you to, between you and the Lord.
You know, I'll tell you various, while I was writing this during the week, I was doing my slide, I was on my bed, my laptop was on my,
laugh and I was, yeah, do it, do it, do it, do it.
Then the Holy Spirit brought something to my mind, boop.
I was like, no.
And it came again, boop.
Okay, so actually there was something.
I'm tempted to say the Lord placed on my heart, but I would qualify it as the I desire to do.
In my lusts pay, I was like, I did my budget, I'm like, ah, no way, I'm not doing it.
Again, this is how I did my budget now, no way.
So I was doing a slide on generosity and that thought came back to my mind.
I'm like, oh, I grabbed my phone so that I wouldn't be an hypocrite.
Jesus was challenging the religious rulers of his days, saying they were mounting heavy burdens on people, burdens that they were not willing to lift.
with a finger themselves.
I just want to invite you.
Can we stand, please?
I think it's a good time to start wrapping up.
If you go to the next slide, there are two QR codes.
One is for the given page of the church and the other is to join a team and serve.
It could also be in the context of a life group.
It could be what you have to give as a time, is a listening ear to someone, is an encouragement, is just to show up and be there for someone who just needs to come to a community of believers.
And these are practical ways.
These are practical next steps to take in our journey of practicing and living a life of generosity.
Yeah, so the other thing I sensed a lot place on my heart as I was preparing for this is, you know that one about giving up all to God, not living a segmented life?
I think that one really stood out for me.
And I think some of us might still
be struggling with trusting God completely.
We're trusting God completely and we will think, man, this thing is gonna collapse.
If I don't keep holding everything, if I'm not in control and maybe God is just saying to you this morning, like, just trust me with this, trust me.
I just want to add one quick thing.
The whole membership thing, the thing with a membership is that you have to pay it.
That's why giving is not a membership.
It's a response to worship.
We give not because we feel obliged or because there's a rule that you have to follow.
We give because the Lord puts on our heart to give.
You know, we don't stand up here inviting people to give.
We invite you to seek the Lord.
We invite you to ask Him what He would have you do with your life.
Well, we seek Him, we invite you to ask Him, Lord, what would you have me give?
Not what would the church have us give, not would David and Nickele or have you give or Palumi.
But Lord, what would you have me give?
How do I start this journey of generosity?
So we don't want anyone to feel like kind of, there's any sort of prerequisite to be in part of this church.
It depends on what you give.
That's not how it works.
The invitation is to respond to Jesus in worship.
It's an act of worship.
And I just feel that is the word that Plumey just used, trust.
I felt that was the word for today.
We have lots of words for today.
And there's a,
In Matthew 6, there's a passage.
I'd really encourage you to go and read the whole thing because we haven't got time to read it.
Do not worry.
It talks about the birds of the air and the flowers of the fields and all of that.
And it has this little line in it, if I can find it.
So do not worry, say, what shall we eat or what shall we drink or what shall we wear for the pagans run after these things.
And your heavenly Father knows that you need them.
Underneath that is actually a promise that the Lord will provide for your needs.
And so the invitation is to trust.
To trust in the one who holds you in his hands.
And so that's where I'd like us to go in ministry is to think, right, do I trust the Lord or have I lived a segmented life?
Am I sort of holding on to parts because I just can't let him take control?
So should we just pray into that?
And truth be known, none of us are perfect.
Whether it's our finances, our time, our energy, our relationships, there's going to be areas that we need to hand over to the Lord.
So Lord, we just invite you to come.
Holy Spirit, just come.